This semester, I am taking MATH-2010 - Multivariable Calculus & Matrix Algebra, CSCI-2200 - Foundations Of Computer Science, CSCI-2500 - Computer Organization, MGMT-4240 - Systems Analysis & Design, and MGMT-4540 - Entrepreneurial Finance. My friend is going to provide me with the materials for CSCI-4967 - Modern Binary Exploitation as his class goes through them, so I will self study that course. I am also going to be pitching Resilient Rhino (a suicide prevention website I worked on throughout the summer) to RCOS (a pseudo-course for developing open source software)—for no credit—to hopefully recruit developers and designers to improve the website for more people and get people the help they need! :D

# Course Descriptions:

1. MATH-2010 - Multivariable Calculus & Matrix Algebra:
   Directional derivatives, maxima and minima, double integrals, line integrals, div and curl, and Green's Theorem; matrix algebra and systems of linear equations, vectors and linear transformations in R^n, eigenvectors and eigenvalues, applications in engineering and science.

2. CSCI-2200 - Foundations Of Computer Science:
   This course introduces important mathematical and theoretical tools for computer science, including topics from set theory, combinatorics, and probability theory, and then proceeds to automata theory, the Turing Machine model of computation, and notions of computational complexity. The course will emphasize formal reasoning and proof techniques.

3. CSCI-2500 - Computer Organization:
   Introduction to computer organization, assembler language, and operating systems. Computer systems organization: processors, memory, I/O. Digital logic: gates, Boolean algebra, digital logic circuits, memory, buses. Microprogramming. Machine level: instruction formats, addressing modes, instruction types, flow of control. Operating systems: virtual memory, virtual I/O instructions, processes, interprocess communication. Numeric representation. Assembler language: the assembly process, macros, linking, loading. Advanced architectures: RISC architectures, parallel architectures.

4. MGMT-4240 - Systems Analysis & Design:
   This course presents conceptual material on the analysis and design of business information systems. The focus is on understanding business information processing requirements and developing information systems solutions to meet these requirements. Key stages of the systems development life cycle including planning, analysis, and design are the focus of this course. Models and procedures for understanding and modeling an organization's existing and planned information systems are presented. Computer-aided software engineering tools are used to provide hands-on experience in designing information systems.

5. MGMT-4540 - Entrepreneurial Finance:
   This course covers the theory and practice of venture capital financing of entrepreneurial firms. Topics to be discussed include the structure and governance of venture capital funds, venture capital financial contracting, valuation of entrepreneurial firms, staging, syndication, capital structure, and exits (IPOs, acquisitions, secondary sales, buybacks, and liquidations). International differences in venture capital markets will also be studied. A student cannot receive credit for both the graduate and undergraduate versions of this course

6. CSCI-4967 - Modern Binary Exploitation:
   Cybersecurity is one of the fastest growing fields in computer science. Modern Binary Exploitation will focus on teaching practical offensive security skills in binary exploitation and reverse engineering. Through a combination of interactive lectures, hands on labs, and guest speakers from industry, the course will offer students a rare opportunity to explore involved subjects in a rapidly evolving field. The course will start off by covering basic x86 reverse engineering, vulnerability analysis, and classical forms of Linux-based userland binary exploitation. It will then transition into defenses found on modern systems (Canaries, DEP, ASLR, RELRO, Fortify Source, etc) and the techniques used to defeat them. Time permitting, the course will also cover other subjects in exploitation including kernel-land and Windows based exploitation, as well as static analysis of binaries.

7. RCOS - Rensselaer Center for Open Source:
   RCOS (Rensselaer Center for Open Source) is an eclectic group of undergraduate students that embark on individual and team-based open source projects, primarily software, but also open hardware projects. Many new projects are introduced each semester, though many ongoing and "higher-profile" projects are also undertaken. Overall, students are required to work on and contribute to open source projects, in particular through multiple commits (commit early, commit often), maintaining a blog, presenting their work and/or specific technical talks, mentoring other projects, etc. This project-based "course" may be taken multiple semesters, with grades based on clear effort and contributions rather than a project that meets all of its requirements.
